we're going to talk about e-commerce
it's like regular Commerce only no one
calls the police when you do it naked
the rise of e-commerce has dramatically
changed the way that we shop for
everything and its convenience is
irresistible as this woman admits I
don't have to get out of the house
why not just an Amazon Prime in now I
know that she might sound lazy there but
you simply can't blame Ashley in our
deburr she's she spent her life at the
beginning of every alphabetical list
she's never had to wait for anything n
through Z that's the sturdy boys half of
the alphabet that is where you learn the
meaning of the phrase hold on a second
John and she is right twenty years ago
when you ran out of something like
toilet paper yet to pull on your Juicy
Couture velour pants hugs and Von Dutch
hats leave your house and go to
something called a store physically
locate something called an aisle pick
the toilet paper up with your physical
arms drag yourself to the register using
your legs and feet pay for it with cash
and then somehow transport the toilet
paper all the way back to your house in
a bag even if you were thirsty it was
hell now thankfully you can just click a
button which is much better it's frankly
no wonder the e-commerce is gradually
chipping away at brick-and-mortar retail
sales and it can't seem like the retail
jobs are shifting to the number of
workers who lost their jobs at
department stores like Sears Macy's and
JC Penney since 2000 is about the same
as the four hundred and forty-four
thousand hired by the warehousing
industry it is if warehouses are
absorbing America's lost retail
employees which initially sounds kind of
nice doesn't it it's like hearing that
there's actually a farm upstate where
borders Circuit City and Tower Records
employees can run around and be free
when you always just assumed that that
was a lie and that they were all
euthanized what actually happens in
warehouses can be invisible to most
people unless companies like Amazon
choose to give us entertaining glimpses
into what a fun workplace they run like
this have you ever wondered how Amazon
gets your packages to you so quickly we
do it with two things amazing technology
and amazing people tell us about
yourself Sean I receive products and I'm
a horrible dancer can we see some moves
the slam machine ways
skander box and attaches a label all in
like one second oh and that's Ryan
he loves photography I do love
photography finally Jacky gives every
single box a long and loving hug before
loading it onto a truck yeah yeah oh
maybe just this one okay oh you love it
hold on hold on saying you love it after
coercing her into hugging a box is gross
and it's frankly telling that on YouTube
when this is true comments are disabled
for that video presumably because Amazon
knew that the only reasonable response
to that is everything about this
but the truth is those jobs are not all
dance-off sandbox hugging they are
physically hard as this commentator says
albeit in the most tactless way possible
but when you go to these distribution
centers fulfillment centers they like to
call them because it's supposed to be
fulfilling it's anything but it's an
amazing thing to see but when I have
when I my first time I visited one of
these massive warehouses with row after
row after row of stuff and these people
walking miles tens of miles a day
picking these things and putting them
back in there it just looks like
back-breaking exhausting work it made me
thank God that I went to college that's
right Wow
joking about people not going to college
is some concentrated elitism although to
be fair it is the condescension that
really pulls his outfit together a lilac
plaid shirt beneath her pastel plaid
blazer you look like a Brooks Brothers
mannequin who was thrown out for being a
noise violation but but the thing is he
is right it is back-breaking labor
sometimes literally the injury and
illness rate in the warehouse industry
is higher than industries like coal
mining construction and logging and I
didn't know that there were jobs more
dangerous than those other than maybe
rodeo clown Oompa Loompa or shark
dentist
and now is actually a good time to talk
about this because Amazon just announced
their annual prime day one of their
biggest sales events basically Black
Friday in the middle of July so tonight
let's look at the warehouse part of the
logistics industry and the people who
work inside them because the margins are
razor thin and the tiniest details can
make a huge difference at Walmart's most
recent shareholder meeting their CEO
brought two workers on stage to show off
how a minor change that they've made to
packing trucks was going to pay off in a
big way for investors we had this two
step stool in the trailers and guess
what it's kind of clunky it's a little
bit big and it's a little bit heavy so
Fransisco does this job every day and
figures out that if we change to this
stool which is lighter and easier to
move around people will actually use it
all the time and we're doing a much
better job of cubing out the trailers
it's going to save us at least thirty
million dollars this year can you thank
these two for us
really appreciated
give these guys a war Walmart thank you
which is of course a small round of
applause to hearty claps on the back and
the requests that they get this off
the stage and get back to work so there
is a lot that goes on behind the scenes
at warehouses far from customers eyes
because many retail giants subcontract
to lesser-known outside companies take
this warehouse in Memphis it shipped
phones for Verizon but it wasn't run by
Verizon it was owned and operated by a
company called XPO one of the bigger
names in logistics and workers there
said conditions could be brutal just
last year they complained about extreme
heat the worker said in the complaint
there's no air conditioning in most of
the metal warehouse on citation drive
and contended inside temperatures can
get dangerous our hot days but OSHA
spokesperson said there's no
requirements for air conditioning in any
tennessee workplace that sounds terrible
although I will say a chicken shouldn't
really be feeling anything when you put
it in an oven if it does for the love of
God check your recipe you may have
missed some key steps and heat is just
the start here the New York Times
reported that a woman actually died of
cardiac arrest at the warehouse and a
co-worker told reporters she witnessed
that woman telling managers that she was
short of breath
and asking for an extra break which her
supervisor denied not just that other
workers said managers then told them to
keep moving boxes as her body lay on the
floor now legally here is why I have to
tell you that XPO takes issue with The
Times's story they denied that the
worker who died told her supervisor she
was feeling unwell and said the company
did allow workers to leave for the day
after that worker died although I simply
don't know how that squares with this
actual post on Facebook from that day
where an XP our employee wrote they're
really trying to make us work and this
lady's dead body still in the building
XPO also insisted to us that they
conducted a full independent
investigation that showed just how wrong
The Times his story was so we said great
can we see the report and they told us
that the investigation had be run by
someone who used to work for Michelle
Obama and we said great can we see the
report
and they said no because and I quote
there is no written report because it
was given to them verbally
so which account should we believe here
expose spoken word report the details of
which may disappear into the wide chasm
of history in the grand tradition of
oral storytelling or this written
contemporaneous account from someone who
was there about having to work around a
co-worker's dead body it's really up to
you the lawyers say it's up to you I
asked the lawyers can it be up to me and
they said no and I said because if it
was I choose the face book one and they
said well you definitely can't say that
so I'm not going to and at this point we
should probably turn to Amazon because
they've increased competitive pressure
across the industry as a former
executive explains they set the bar high
there is a promise of speed which is
completely sacred when you receive an
email message from Amazon saying that
the item was in a way and you will get
it tomorrow that promise has to be met
at any cost
Wow at any cost it's a little weird to
hear someone treat my stupid Amazon
purchases with such urgency because
you're not delivering diphtheria
medicine to a remote Alaskan village
here you're delivering novelty Horsehead
masks to people who frankly forgotten
they ordered them till they showed up
and look Amazon is not the worst actor
in this industry they generally don't
subcontract out their warehouses and
they made headlines last year for
raising workers base pay to $15 an hour
but being not the worst is a low low bar
and they have huge influence here when
Amazon announced earlier this year that
they'd be making one day shipping
standard for Prime members Walmart
immediately hinted that it would do the
same
basically Amazon is the industry
trendsetter that the Michael Jackson of
shipping they're the best of what they
do everyone tries to imitate them and
nobody who learns a third thing about
them is happy that they did
because the conditions in their
warehouses are not nearly as fun as
their ads like to suggest they can be
physically draining as this seasonal
worker in his 70s will tell you I had a
scanner in my hand and the scanner would
tell me to go pick up a box of Oreo
cookies and the purple section I would
go there and then I'd get another scan
go pick up some STP oil and the green
section which is the UPS inside of the
warehouse which the warehouse is two
football fields or three football fields
so I would end up on a ten-hour shift
walking 15 to 17 miles a day yeah and
watching that might stick in your head
the next time that you're sitting there
or during next day delivery of Oreos do
you really need them that fast probably
not right how about a 72 pack of Tide
Pods again our dog you know what about
this costume that makes you catalogue a
sharpshooter well here it does get more
complicated doesn't it your cat could be
a little cowboy then you can call him
Butch Cassidy and you might want that to
happen as soon as possible it's not an
emergency no but it's also not
unimportant and if you're thinking well
that sounds tough but maybe that job
just wasn't for that man
you should know the rate at which Amazon
has workers pick items can exhaust
workers of any age Pickers like Steven
Abadie Lee walk 15 miles or more each
day to retrieve as many as 200 items an
hour a handheld device dictates every
move and counts down tasks to the second
would say I need to be in aisle 54 get
this item and then suddenly you're going
to aisle 72 and you have 10 seconds
Abadie lee struggled to keep up and like
many was eventually let go I would get
out of work get home and sit on the
couch and my body would just quit on me
right then you're a guy in your early
20s yeah and you're still wiped out I
was dead at the end of the day look no
one should be in their prime in the
morning and then dead at the end of the
day unless they are a mayfly and
mayflies are just not spending their one
day on earth in an Amazon warehouse
because of course they're not they know
the precious value of time they're
spending their day doing a mountain of
cocaine and far past a clip bass die
fast hashtag Yolo but by many accounts
Amazon operates at a relentless pace and
as one youtuber who's worked in an
Amazon warehouse will tell you even when
they offer a reward system the
incentives can be a bit of a slap in the
face they would be like you know though
everyone's rates are really really low
and we need to get these up so we're
gonna have a power outerwear you guys
have to push and push and push as hard
as you can and the winner get the prize
for pushing and pushing through the pain
guess what the damn prize was hey dollar
gift card to in-n-out burger yeah I get
why that was annoying because you know
what's better than a ten dollar gift
card to in-n-out burger just ten dollars
it's like an in and out gift card but it
can be used for things that don't come
animal style plus plus over the years
amazon has faced criticism from workers
over their willingness to accommodate
basic human needs like using the
bathroom seven lawsuits have been filed
against them by pregnant workers who say
they will refuse longer bathroom breaks
and fewer continuous hours on their feet
now legally here is where I have to tell
you that amazon says it's accommodated
thousands of pregnant associates and
more generally they say associates are
allowed to use the toilet whenever
needed
but that simply doesn't square with many
accounts from workers both in news
reports and many many first-person
testimonials on YouTube if you go to the
bathroom during your break you're gonna
have to wait in line and you're not
gonna make your numbers for that period
and you're gonna have someone come and
talk to you if you're far away from the
bathroom it's gonna take you a long time
just to get there use it and get back
now your rate has plummeted unless you
really really really have to just hold
it until you have your lunch break
because it will mess up your rate and
they will find any excuse to fire you
and that's just not a good system for
multiple reasons including the fact that
when
people shortened their time in the
bathroom they don't shorten the bathroom
part they shorten the hand-washing part
so the next time you order something
online it's probably safe to assume it's
been packed by your in soaked hands and
if you're thinking it can seem like
Amazon barely sees their workers as
human you're not alone just watch this
interviewer have that exact thought in
real-time the number of items they pick
per hour the number of steps they take
its measured and when they're not as
productive as their colleagues there
they're put on alert there's a line of
other people
and a lot of these communities waiting
to take jobs they're almost like robots
except they're obviously human beings
yeah yeah I could honestly watch that go
figure out what things are almost like
four hours giraffes are almost like
horses except they're obviously
stretchier Amazon is rolling out more
and more robots in its warehouses
increasingly working side by side with
humans a relationship which isn't always
seamless an automated machine like this
one used by Amazon to move merchandise
accidentally punctured a can of bear
repellent remove all the toxic bear
spray got into the building's air vents
more than 50 workers complained about
trouble breathing and a burning
sensation in their eyes and throats
yeah the workers were bear maced by a
robot and Amazon says they've now
changed how bear repellent is stored
which is friendly just as well because
their workers have been bare most more
than once in 2015 a Texas Fire
Department responded to an emergency
caused by a robot running over a can of
bear repellent so in 50 years time when
humanity is caught in the crossfire of
the great bear versus robot war remember
robots fired the first shot and they
fired twice
and it's not just exhaustion or the
potential of being bare most reports
have found numerous cases of Amazon
workers suffering from workplace
accidents or injuries which isn't even
surprising remember this is a physically
demanding job and you might hope that a
labor union could step in to push for
more protections but amazon has actively
fought against that happening even
producing a union busting training video
for managers which leaked onto the
Internet last fall we are not anti-union
but we are not neutral either we will
boldly defend our direct relationship
with associates as best for the
associate the business and our
shareholders we do not believe unions
are in the best interest of our
customers our shareholders are most
importantly our associates our business
model is built upon speed innovation and
customer obsession things that are
generally not associated with Dean Ian's
yeah customer obsession is not generally
associated with unions because it's a
very creepy phrase and not one that I
really want to be associated with any
brand much less one that he's so
desperate to put microphones
inside my house the more you look at
Amazon the more you realize that its
convenience comes with a real cost
because think about it we used to have
to drive to stores to buy things now
those things are brought directly to us
and there's somehow cheaper that didn't
just happen with a clever algorithm it
happened by creating a system that
squeezes the people lowest on the ladder
hard and all the while the man behind
Amazon is now worth a hundred and
eighteen billion dollars more than
anyone else in the world he is so rich
he seems to actually think that this is
a reasonable answer to a question about
what he plans to do with his personal
wealth the only way that I can see to
deploy this much financial resource is
by converting my Amazon winnings into
space travel so first 118 billion
dollars it's not anybody's winnings it
is a computer error in capitalism but it
is true base ops is spending a billion
dollars a year on his personal space
exploration company blue aura
and I'm not saying that billionaires
playing space games is a Freudian issue
anyone can talk about how Rockets look
like dicks I will just say this is his
actual rockets which looks even more
like a dick than you expected it to it
has a head of billion dollars a year
that's just a drop in the bucket of a
fortune that Bezos can't seem to figure
out how to spend meanwhile some of his
employees seem to be working themselves
to exhaustion Amazon has driven the
whole warehouse industry to move
constantly faster and faster on already
low margins and sure the fact that it
pays at least $15 an hour is nice but
raising workers wages is only part of
the equation here making sure these jobs
are safe and that the pace is
sustainable is critical too and if Bezos
has enough money to fund his space dicks
in perpetuity it isn't a question of
whether he can improve working
conditions for his employees it's just a
question of if he wants to and if he
doesn't want to at the very least Amazon
should present a more realistic picture
of what their promises cost the workers
who make it all happen
have you ever wondered how Amazon gets
your packages to you so quickly we do it
with two things amazing technology and
amazing people every day thousands of
items arrive and Shawn goes to find them
tell us about yourself Shawn I pick up
products and I'm a horrible dancer oh
that's fun can we see some moves oh I've
already walked 12 miles today I said
dance
[Music]
oh and that's Ryan he moves items around
the fulfillment center I don't have time
to go to the bathroom so I'm just gonna
stand here and wet myself good for you
Ryan
all right can't do it while you watch
okay okay all right all right
seriously Lisa here packs your stuff
into boxes don't you Lisa can't talk now
I'm running behind in my units per hour
oh it's okay just tell us a little bit
about yourself please mom kids nobody
cares about your kids leave so you're
falling behind faster faster faster
you no you this lavishing ways
scans your box and attaches a label all
in like one second and this is Alberto
well my friends call me al and I gotta
say I really think a union would help
address some of the systemic problems
that works oh there's phrase finally
Jackie hugs every box no I don't oh
maybe just this one okay because a lot
of people want this job okay
one day a robot will hug boxes and we'll
be done with this whole charade yeah I
get it
but until then hug the Box Jackie um
good now kiss it I don't want I said
kiss the box every day hundreds of
thousands of packages are shipped to
your front door and that's all because
of our amazing associates happy prime
day everyone
[Music]
Amazon try not to think about it
you